In this management console,
you'll be able to see several databases including the one that you created,
and you will see that when you do
an multi AC deployment like the one that we have right now,
you will have multiple,
one is called reader,
another called writer and regional.
So it really depends on your deployment.
In this case obviously, we have more than one for the reason that we discussed.
One of them is just a read replica for
the time being but it would become your master database if
something were to happen to
your primary database that's running in a different availability zone.
So the main thing that you need to know about your database is called the endpoint.
Let's see if we can pull that information.
As you can see this here,
this will give you an Amazon DNS name for this endpoint.
So if you have your username,
password and this endpoint and you have access to port 3306,
in this case which is the default for MySQL and Aurora, that's it.
You just need to provide these values as
environment variables or something similar to your application running in
your server and you'll be able to connect to your database
and start creating databases and tables and pushing data in there.
Do you have access to performance metrics?
Metrics will help you when it comes to deciding whether you have
to vertically scale your database or horizontally scaling.
The reasoning is obviously your application is going to grow over time.
You start with 100 user then you go into 1,000 and 2,000 and so on.
At some point the database is not going to be able to handle the workload.
So keeping track of metrics will help you ensure that
you can foresee when the Database might run out of resources and you need to upgrade.
The Snapshots is what we discussed regarding backups.
You will come here and see every 24 hours whether you have a new backup or not.
Those snapshots are available on S3 stores.
Now, you see the connection between services.
You can access those snapshots whenever so if
for some reason you need to go back in time,
six months to a year depending on your retention policies you
could bring the database that far back if necessary.
We have subnets group that we discuss and some other options.
The options groups are specific features for
databases that you may need to change eventually.
Like I said, if you have a background in database management,
you'll see that sometimes you'll need to tweak certain parameters to get
the maximum performance out of a particular database.